Easing is usually not enough to achieve animations that feel natural and familiar because they're based on a cure and a duration. We can't create a natural motion because, in the real world, we don't have a fixed duration.

Spring animations can help here. They are based on the behavior of an object attached to a spring in a physical world, so they feel more natural by definition.

## How to craft a spring animation?
Spring animations are created by describing the behavior of an object attached to a spring and providing values for mass, tension, and velocity.

Unfortunately, these values are not easy to understand since, on the web, there is no object with real mass. So, Apple developed an alternative method where you only have to define duration and bounce. Lucky for us, this is the same approach Framer Motion has taken.

This means that we start using the duration parameter again, but here it refers to the perceptual duration, which is the time it takes for an animation to feel like it's finished, even though there's still some very subtle movement happening.

## Interruptibility
Spring animations are also interruptible and uses the velocity it had when it was re-targeted making the movement feel smooth and natural.

## Bounce 
While spring animations can have a bouncy effect, there are only a few instances in product UI where a bounce is appropriate in my opinion. For a more physical feel, a slight bounce at the end of a drag gesture might make sense.

Generally, having no bounce at all should be your default to ensure that your transitions feel natural and elegant.