When we write our collection classes we cannot use the standard `each` or any of the other `Enumerable` methods. Even if we store an array inside our class, when we use the data from outside the class we cannot iterate on them.

```ruby
class Villans
	def initialize
		@villans = ['Jabba Desilijic Tiure', 'Boba Fett', 'Bossk', 'Darth Vader' , 'Green Goblin']
	end
end

v = Villans.new

v.each { |n| puts n }
```
In this example we will get a `NoMethodError` because in fact we do not have the `each` method defined for the `Villan` class, even if `@villans` is an array we remove the method when we work one level up with our class.

When you need to provide a method that allows to iterate within a class the best bet you can do is to **create an `each` method**. With our class we can do like so:
```ruby
class Villans
	def initialize
		@villans = ['Darth Vader', 'Palpatine', 'Jabba Desilijic Tiure', 'Boba Fett', 'Bossk']
	end

	def each
		@villans.each { |villan| yield villan }
	end
end
```
Basically we are leveraging the power of the `each` method that's defined on our array and we `yield` the result passing it as a block parameter so our own `each` method defined for `Villans` can use the value in their own block.

Now the `each` method works just fine, but there is more to it that we need to discover.
## Why making an `each` method is a great idea
We just saw that create the most common iterator `each` is a good idea, at least our dev team already know how it works but there is more to it because this is the method that get's called with any other `Enumerable` class. 

Let's take those two classes as an example:
```ruby
class Movie
  attr_reader :title, :rating, :duration

  def initialize(title, rating, duration)
    @title = title
    @rating = rating
    @duration = duration
  end

  def watch
    puts "Watching #{title} - #{rating} (#{duration} mins)..."
  end
end

class MovieQueue
  def initialize(name)
    @name = name
    @movies = []
  end

  def add_movie(movie)
    @movies << movie
  end
end
```
Now we have the `Movie` class that let us define objects for a movie and the `MovieQueue` class that help us making a list of movies that we want to watch. In order to have some data to work with we need first to create some Movie objects.
```ruby
movie1 = Movie.new("Toy Story", "G", 81)
movie2 = Movie.new("Cast Away", "PG", 143)
movie3 = Movie.new("Apollo 13", "PG", 140)
movie4 = Movie.new("Cars", "G", 117)
```
Now let's create our queue with the following code:
```ruby
queue = MovieQueue.new("Friday Night")
queue.add_movie(movie1)
queue.add_movie(movie2)
queue.add_movie(movie3)
queue.add_movie(movie4)
```
When you're ready to sit in front of the couch it could be nice to have an `each` method that allows you to list all the scheduled movies, let's implement one in the `MovieQueue` class:
```ruby
def each
	@movies.each { |movie| yield movie }
end
```
Now that we have it at our disposal we can call it and invoke the `watch` method of a `Movie` object;
```ruby
queue.each { |movie| movie.watch }
```
The thing is that we still miss many of the useful methods (like `select`, `detect`, `map` and so on) that generally are available to any `Enumerable`.

Since we've created the custom `each` method for the `MovieQueue` class things are getting really interesting because **you can inherith all the methods of the `Enumerable` module** by simply including it in the class:
```ruby
class MovieQueue
	include Enumerable
	
	# Other code...
end
```
Now with this we can call any `Enumerable` method right from our object. Let's say that for example you want to list only the movies that are longer than *100 minutes*, well now we can do it with `select`:
```ruby
long_movies = queue.select { |m| m.duration > 100 }
```
This is possible because we included the `Enumerable` module **and** we defined the general iterator method `each` in our class.

Now that we tapped into the power of the `Enumerable` we can do much more, let's say for example that you wanto to know the total time of your queue, how can you do that?

Well you can use the `reduce` method to simply calc the total duration of your movies:
```ruby
# Calculate total duration of movies in queue
total_duration = queue.reduce(0) { |sum, movie| sum + movie.duration }
```

