Managing cache is one of the hardest thing we can do while developing and most of the time the source cause is relative to the fact that **we want to store too much stuff in it**.

While working in a React application we generally want to store in the global state **everything**, UI state **and** server state.

This is the first issue that makes our states and cache management so complex and hard. One of the first thing that we can do to simplify this situation is to **separate** our state in two buckets: 
* **UI** - all our UI changes based on user interactions
* **Server** - all the data that we get from server

Just separate this into two different states will help us a ton, especially if on top of this separation you start to use some libraries that have been build with this scope in mind.

One of the most famous libraries, and the one we will use in this exercise, to handle server state is [React Query](https://react-query.tanstack.com/). While this library is not focused on making the actual request to your server, you still have to use `fetch`, `axios` or your favorite solution, it gives use some hooks and utilis that makes our life so much easier.

Some of the more common used hooks of this library are `useQuery` and `useMutation`, the first is generally used to `GET` resources from the server while the latter will be useful for any kind of changes we want to send to the server.

`useQuery` will return a bunch of useful data, as a quick overview the most common values that we can use are:

* `status` - string values that changes to reflect all the statuses of our query,
* `isLoading` - boolean that's equal to the value of `status === 'loading'`
* `isError` - boolean that's equal to the value of `status === 'error'`
* `isSuccess` - boolean that's equal to the value of `status === 'success'` and means that the data are available
* `isIdle` - boolean that's equal to the value of `status === 'idle'`, query is currently disabled
* `isFetching` - `true` in any care our query is running
* `error` - populated only when `isError` is `true`
* `data` - populated only when `isSuccess` is `true` 

In order to create all those values `useQuery` needs two arguments:
* `key` - generally a string that identifies the query (useful for cache management and other)
* `fetchFn` - a function that returns a [[Promise]] that can `resolve` or `throw` an error, this is the fn where you set your `fetch`/`axios` call

`useQuery` can be configured in many ways and we'll get deeper into [[useQuery|the docs]] but for the moment this is the syntax that we will use during our exercise:
```js
const result = useQuery({
	queryKey: ['tweet', {tweetId}],
	queryFn: (key, {tweetId}) =>
		client(`tweet/${tweetId}`).then(data => data.tweet),
})
```

While `useQuery` is used to get data `useMutation` is used to create/update/delete data from a server and we mostly get the same values back except for `isFetching` since there is no cache management for this kind of queries. I do not want to repeat myself here so if you want to get deeper into `useMutation` go to the [[useMutation|doc page]].

# Exercise
### Create listitems with React Query `useMutation`

^a9856a

Now that we have all that we need to start let's tackle the first step of this exercise: **adding a book to our list**.

I got pretty confused by the amount of comments/information I got while opening the first suggested file, `status-buttons.js`, so if you're like me and want to know **what** the first exercise is all about is to put into use the `useMutation` hook.

Also worth notice, if you're looking **where** the button that'll add the book to our list you'll find it in the *single book page* 😉

Alright, now we have the right page and file. What's the code we need to write?

As usual since we know that we're making HTTP requests and we want to use `useMutation` is better to import all the relevant fns:
```js
import { useMutation } from 'react-query'
import { client } from 'utils/api-client'
```
Here I am importing the `client` fn because it is the one that will handle the `fetch`.

Now that I have `useMutation` at my disposal I want to create a function that will be fired when the user clicks on the button.
> **Be aware:** in the following code we destructure the returned values from `useMutation` as an array but this **is no more valid in v3**. In our code it is working because our dependency installed at `2.26.2`.

> **Contribute (if you want)**. I do not think I'll get back to update the following code, except maybe if I'll go over EpicReact again and Kent has updated the lessons 😂 So if you feel like contributing just send me a PR 😉

So back to the code this is my `create` function that will be attached to the `TooltipButton`:
```js
// Other code...
const [create] = useMutation(
	({bookId}) => client( "list-items", {data: {bookId}, token: user.token})
);

// Other code...
<TooltipButton
	label="Add to list"
	highlight={colors.indigo}
	onClick={ () => create({bookId: book.id})}
	icon={<FaPlusCircle />}
/>
```
As Kent mention in the video, since we are creating the `create` fn right inside our component we could get the book id right from the `props` that we pass to it but to make things more clear I am passing its value straight from the `onClick` as an option object were I set the `bookId` from the `book.id`.

That's all for the first part of the exercise. The `client` fn will take care of running the `fetch` and since we send the `data`, as done in a [[4. Authentication#^5c35e7|previous lesson]], we change the method from `GET` to `POST`. 

Also worth of notice the fact that since we are making an authenticated request we need to pass also the `token`.
### View listitems with React Query `useQuery`
With previous exercise we've been able to create a list item for the book that our user added to his reading list but we do not query the list at all to see if the book that the user has open is on that list or not.

To make a query to our database we need to use the `useQuery` hook that React Query ships for us.

The first thing we need to do is to import it.
```js
// Other imports...
import { useQuery, useMutation } from 'react-query'
```
Now that we have `useQuery` we can start to leverage it to send a request to check if the book we are currently seeing is in our list or not.
```js
const {data: listItems} = useQuery({
	queryKey: 'list-items',
	queryFn: () => client('list-items', {token: user.token}).then(data => data.listItems)
})
```
There is plenty to explain about this snippet of code 😃

First and foremost we are using the configuration object for our `useQuery`, we pass `list-item` as a key that, as wrote before, will be used to handle the cache and other of this specific query.

In our `queryFn` we leverage the `client` fn to call the `list-item` endpoint, since this is an authenticated request we also pass the `token` in our configuration object. As we know `client` will return a [[Promise]] so we use the `then` to get the response that will have `listItems` props.

`useQuery` will return many information, as already saw a bit earlier, but we're only interested in the `data` that we get from it and to make easier to handle it we rename as `listItems`.

At this point we have the **complete list of books in the reading list** and we need to know if the current book is in this list or not because our API does not provide a way to query this single information. All we need to do is to transform the declaration of the `listItem` variable into:
```js
const listItem = listItems?.find(li => li.bookId === book.id) ?? null;
```
The first thing to remember is that `useQuery` is asynchronous so it could be present or not, to handle it we make use of the [[optional chaining]] and the [[nullish coalescing operator]] to return `null` in case the first is `undefined`.

If `listItems` is set we use `find` to check if the current book is present in our reading list or not. This will change the button shown to let the user remove the book from the list **or** to mark it as read.

Now everything seems working fine, **if you refresh the page** because if user uses the button to add the book to his reading list nothing changes. This is because `useQuery` does not going to re-request the item for us, we need to tell it that we made a mutation that changes the data.

So we need to invalidate the current query so React Query can fetch it once more.

To do it first we import the `queryCache` from React Query and use it to invalidate the query. Then can use the `onSettled` property that is used in the configuration object of `useMutation` as a second parameter to pass the invalidation:
```js
const [create] = useMutation(
	({bookId}) => client( "list-items", {data: {bookId}, token: user.token}),
	{onSettled: () => queryCache.invalidateQueries('list-items')}
)
```
`onSettled` will be used if the query succeed or not, so it makes us sure that we will invalidate the query with key `list-items` no matter what once we made our mutation.

### Remove listItems with `useMutation`
This part is really similar to the [[6. Cache Management#^a9856a|create listItems]] because we still need to send a mutation, the request needs to be authorized and we still want to invalidate the cache when we fire it.

As done for the `create` fn we need to destructure the fn that will be returned from `useMutation` that in this case we call `remove`:
```js
const [remove] = useMutation(
	// This part will be slightly different
	{onSettled: () => queryCache.invalidateQueries('list-items')}
)
```
I have omitted the `mutationFn` for the moment to show you how similar this is to the `create` one. 

First and foremost this mutation uses a method that we did not implemented in our `client`, we must `DELETE` and for the moment we handle only `GET` and `POST`, so we have to **pass it to let override the `method`**.

Beside that remember that we are not dealing with books here, so the `bookId` that we were passing previously has no means here. We need to pass the `id` of the list item (the favorite book) that we want to remove from the list:
```js
const [remove] = useMutation(
	({id}) => client( `list-items/${id}`, {method: 'DELETE', token: user.token}),
	{onSettled: () => queryCache.invalidateQueries('list-items')}
)
```
Once we have the fn to run this mutation it's just a matter to pass it to the *remove btn* and we are ready to rock:
```jsx
<TooltipButton
	icon={<FaMinusCircle />}
	label="Remove from list"
	highlight={colors.danger}
	onClick={ () => remove({id: listItem.id})}
/>
```
### Update listItems with `useMutation`
This portion is really similar to the last two, the main difference is that we now pass a `PUT` method and the `data` will be an obj that stores the changes, here's the `update` fn declaration:
```js
const [update] = useMutation(
	(updates) => client( `list-items/${updates.id}`, {method: 'PUT', data: updates, token: user.token}),
	{onSettled: () => queryCache.invalidateQueries('list-items')}
)
```
Now we can use this fn to set the `onClick` for the btns *Mark as read* and *Unmark as read*.
```jsx
Boolean(listItem.finishDate) ? (
	<TooltipButton
		label="Unmark as read"
		highlight={colors.yellow}
		onClick={ () => update( {id: listItem.id, finishDate: null})}
		icon={<FaBook />}
	/>
) : (
	<TooltipButton
		label="Mark as read"
		highlight={colors.green}
		onClick={ () => update( {id: listItem.id, finishDate: Date.now()})}
		icon={<FaCheckCircle />}
	/>
)
```
### View listItem Data in BookRow with `useQuery`
In this part we just need to `useQuery` just as we did before in the `StatusButtons` component. To be more specific, since we're dealing with the same list of items **it is important** to use the same `queryKey` for both calls so React Query will be able to handle the cache easily.

Basically we need to copy/paste the code from `StatusButtons` 😃
```js
const {data: listItems} = useQuery({
	queryKey: 'list-items',
	queryFn: () => client('list-items', {token: user.token}).then(data => data.listItems)
})

const listItem = listItems?.find(li => li.bookId === book.id) ?? null
```
Remember to import `useQuery` and `client`, even if your IDE already cover this 😉
### Update a Book Rating with `useMutation`
Even with this part we are able to reuse some code that we already wrote because we update the item in `StatusButtons` as well, the fact that we pass an `updates` obj that contains all the edits make the `update` fn really flexible.
```js
const [update] = useMutation(
	(updates) => client(`list-items/${updates.id}`, {method: 'PUT', data: updates, token: user.token}), 
	{onSettled: () => queryCache.invalidateQueries('list-items')}
)
```
We also invalid the cache when the query gets `onSettled` with `queryCache.invalidateQueries` and do not worry on firing `update` because the component is already set for it.

### Refactor `useAsync` to `useQuery`
In this exercise we see how the creation of `useAsync` has been formative in the use of React Query, that's mostly because we create a custom hook that have a similar API that is offered by `useQuery`.

The focus of this lesson is to make the search feature handled by React Query so we will be able to leverage it's caching system and speed up searches that user has already done.

In order to do so the first thing we need to do is to open `discover.js` and start importing `useQuery`. 

After that it's time to build our query leveraging the syntax with `queryKey` and `queryFn` to execute our query and to handle the cache:
```js
useQuery({
	queryKey: ["bookSearch", query],
	queryFn: // We fill this soon
})
```
As you can see in this first example we are setting the `queryKey` as an array to create keys that are unique based on the search of the user that is stored in `query`.

The next step is to complete our code filling the `queryFn` part:
```js
useQuery({
	queryKey: ["bookSearch", query],
	queryFn: () => client(`books?query=${encodeURIComponent(query)}`, {
		token: user.token,
	}).then(data => data.books),
})
```
We took **the same search function** that was inside the call to `run`, from `useAsync` and executed inside an `useEffect`, and place it in `queryFn` so from now on, if needed, React Query knows how to fetch the API for the search term of our user.

We have configured the query but **we do not use it**, right now our code still works thanks to `useAsync`, it's time to leverage the React Query power.
```diff
- const {data, error, run, isLoading, isError, isSuccess} = useAsync()
+ const {data, error, isLoading, isError, isSuccess} = useQuery({
+	queryKey: ["bookSearch", query],
+	queryFn: () => client(`books?query=${encodeURIComponent(query)}`, {
+		token: user.token,
+	}).then(data => data.books),
+ })

const books = data ?? loadingBooks

- React.useEffect(() => {
-	if (!queried) {
-		return
-	}
-	run(
-		client(`books?query=${encodeURIComponent(query)}`, {
-			token: user.token,
-		}).then(data => data.books),
-	)
- }, [query, queried, run, user.token])
```
As you can see by yourself we removed plenty of code here, but beside it we are consolidating the codebase removing a custom script to an external library that will handle our requests.

One minor difference from React Query API and the one offered by `useAsync` is that we have lost the use of `run` but this it does not matter because `useQuery` will execute the `client` automatically.

### Load and Persist Book Data with `useQuery`
Now that we leveraged the power of React Query in our Discovery page it's time to bring this power to the Book page, `book.js`.

The first thing to do, as usual, is to import `useQuery` into the file and change the use of `useAsync`:
```diff
- const {data, run} = useAsync()
-
- React.useEffect(() => {
-	run(client(`books/${bookId}`, {token: user.token}))
- }, [run, bookId, user.token])
+ const {data} = useQuery({
+	queryKey: ['book', {bookId}],
+	queryFn: () => client(`books/${bookId}`, {token: user.token})
+ })
```
But we can do even better and get right the `book` we're looking for and pass the loading value in case `data` does not have it:
```js
const {data: book = loadingBook} = useQuery({
	queryKey: ['book', {bookId}],
	queryFn: () => client(`books/${bookId}`, {token: user.token}).then( data => data.book )
})
```
Doing this allow us to remove the need of setting the default value for `book` later in the code with `const book = data?.book ?? loadingBook`.

Now it's time to load the `listItem`, hint you can check the code inside our `status-buttons.js`:
```js
const {data: listItems} = useQuery({
	queryKey: 'list-items',
	queryFn: () => client('list-items', {token: user.token}).then(data => data.listItems)
})

const listItem = listItems?.find(li => li.bookId === book.id) ?? null;
```
With this snippet now we get the information for this specific book and we can show the rating, start and finish data but also the notes to the user that has added the book to his reading list.

The last problem we need to tackle is find a way to persist the mutation that happen when we write a note, basically how to save the notes we write about the book.

To do this we can use `useMutation`, along with `queryCache`, to handle the back and forth of a user that's typing a note. Even in this case we can take inspiration from the `status-buttons.js` and its `update` fn:
```js
const [mutate] = useMutation(
	(updates) => client( `list-items/${updates.id}`, {method: 'PUT', data: updates, token: user.token}),
	{onSettled: () => queryCache.invalidateQueries('list-items')}
)
```
We have renamed the `update` fn to `mutate` because this is the name we're using inside `NotesTextarea`. 

Have a look how the request is handled, we can see that we pass the `mutate` fn into `debounceFn` and this helps us to reduce the amount of API queries while our user is typing.

### Query with `useQuery` for `listItems` in `ListItemList`
In this part of the exercise we want to populate the pages for *Reading List* and *Finished Books*, both of them use the same component `ListItemList` that then filters the data we get from the request with the `filterListItems` prop.

We can leverage some code that we already created to get all the items in the list, solving in with a simple copy/paste:
```js
const {data: listItems} = useQuery({
	queryKey: 'list-items',
	queryFn: () => client('list-items', {token: user.token}).then(data => data.listItems)
})

const filteredListItems = listItems?.filter(filterListItems)
```
### Clear `queryCache` on user logout
Basically wherever the user can logout from the application we need to call `queryCache.clear()`, this will empty the cache handled via React Query and will make sure that the next user will not read a cache of someone else.
## 1. 💯 Make hooks
### Create `useBookSearch` Custom Hook
Programming is about DRY and in our application there are many places where we repeat our code, the first example is the query we run for a search in the Discovery Page.

As we already saw React give us a powerful way to not repeat our code, the [[custom Hook]].

Let's create the `useBookSearch` inside our `utils/books.js`.

The scope of this refactoring is to bring to a center place all the code relative to the search:
```js
import {useQuery} from 'react-query'
import {client} from './api-client'

// loadingBooks and other dependencies...

function useBookSearch(query, user){

	const result = useQuery({
		queryKey: ["bookSearch", query],
		queryFn: () => client(`books?query=${encodeURIComponent(query)}`, {
			token: user.token,
		}).then(data => data.books),
	})

	return {...result, books: result.data ?? loadingBooks }
}

export {useBookSearch}
```
We miss some part of the logic, if you try to run this an error for the missing `loadingBooks` will be fired but as you can see the `useQuery` that we assign to the `result` variable is the same that is used inside the Discovery page.

In this case, since we are creating a custom Hook for the search, we can massage even further the `data` we get from the query creating a default `books` value and assign to it a default value.

We just moved things around but just to be clear let's see how much code we will not write in our Discovery Page:
```diff
-import {useQuery} from 'react-query'
-import {client} from './api-client'
-import bookPlaceholderSvg from 'assets/book-placeholder.svg'

-const loadingBook = {
-  title: 'Loading...',
-  author: 'loading...',
-  coverImageUrl: bookPlaceholderSvg,
-  publisher: 'Loading Publishing',
-  synopsis: 'Loading...',
-  loadingBook: true,
-}

-const loadingBooks = Array.from({length: 10}, (v, index) => ({
-  id: `loading-book-${index}`,
-  ...loadingBook,
-}))

function DiscoverBooksScreen({user}) {
  const [query, setQuery] = React.useState('')
  const [queried, setQueried] = React.useState(false)
-  const {data, error, isLoading, isError, isSuccess} = useQuery({
-	queryKey: ["bookSearch", query],
-	queryFn: () => client(`books?query=${encodeURIComponent(query)}`, {
-		token: user.token,
-	}).then(data => data.books),
-  })
+  const {books, error, isLoading, isError, isSuccess} = useBookSearch(query, user)
  // Other code...
```
As you can see here relies the power of custom hooks, you can abstract repetitive tasks into them and keep the component that uses them really clean and simple.

### Create a `useBook` custom hook
Getting a single book is also a repetitive task, on top of that we are also repeating the code needed for the `loadingBook` inside our `screens/book.js` so it is time to create a `useBook` custom hook.

We will place it in the same `utils/books.js` file we used before and we will get the code for the query straight from `screend/book.js`:
```js
function useBook(bookId, user){
	const {data} = useQuery({
		queryKey: ['book', {bookId}],
		queryFn: () => client(`books/${bookId}`, {token: user.token}).then( data => data.book )
	})	

	return data ?? loadingBook
}
```
In this case we only care about the `data`, the single book that return from our selection, so we just need it as a `return`. Pay attention that we fallback to the `loadingBook` in case we do not have `data` to show.

Using this custom hook is really simple, once imported we will change our `screens/book.js` into this:
```diff
-const {data: book = loadingBook} = useQuery({
-	queryKey: ['book', {bookId}],
-	queryFn: () => client(`books/${bookId}`, {token: user.token}).then( data => data.book )
-})
+const book = useBook(bookId, user)
```
