Per convention a Model name is **singular** (ie. *article*) while a table name is **plural** (ie. *articles*) and generally speaking if we have a model Rails is expecting a table that will contain the data respecting the previous conventions.

```ruby
# app/models/article.rb
class Article < ApplicationRecord
	# Code for the model
end
```

# Creating a table 
Following the previous examples we are going to create the `articles` table that will be structured like so:
f
| ID  | title          | description           |
| --- | -------------- | --------------------- |
| 1   | first article  | description of first  |
| 2   | second article | description of second |
| 3   | third article  | description of third  |

The **ID** is the `primary key` for the table because we use it to retrieve the information stored in that specific row.

In Rails to create, or in general apply any modification to a database, we use the command line. 

With our setup we cannot straight access to the `rails` command, because we use Docker, so we have to run it from the outside or leverage the *Remote Containers* extension of VS Code and run the following from the command line:
`bin/rails g migration create_articles`

This will generate a migration file named *20210702152953_create_articles.rb* inside the `db/migrate` directory. As you can see the name is the same as the name we provided to the command but has a *timestamp* at the top of it, useful to not create confusions when we import them.

The command has created the following code:
```ruby
class CreateArticles < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.1]
  def change
    create_table :articles, id: :uuid do |t|

      t.timestamps
    end
  end
end
```
Based on the name we provided Rails has been smart enough to understand that we wanted to create an `articles` table, and has generated the `create_table :articles`.
> In our case we also have the `id` already declared with `:uuid` and `t.timestamps` is a sort of helper that Rails offer to us to create the *created_at* and *updated_at* columns/

Even if the command line is able to add the *title* and *description* in this case we do by hand, if you'd like to know how to do in terminal you simply had to change the migration command into this:
`bin/rails g migration create_articles title:string description:text`
```ruby
class CreateArticles < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.1]
  def change
    create_table :articles, id: :uuid do |t|
	  t.string :title
	  t.text :description
		
      t.timestamps
    end
  end
end
```
To then run the migration and apply the changes in the database the command that we need to run is:
`bin/rails db:migrate`

Once the migration is finished you find all the changes in the `schema.rb` file:
```ruby
ActiveRecord::Schema.define(version: 2021_07_02_152953) do

  create_table "articles", id: :uuid, default: -> { "gen_random_uuid()" }, force: :cascade do |t|
    t.string "title"
    t.text "description"
    t.datetime "created_at", precision: 6, null: false
    t.datetime "updated_at", precision: 6, null: false
  end

end
```
This file is the *'source of truth'* of any Rails project since will hold the final structure of the database.
