Right now our controller has many repetition that we can simplify a lot.
# Reduce amount of code
## Simplify `find`
Right now we use the same line of code (`@article = Article.find(params[:id])`) in `show`, `edit`, `update` and the `destroy` action. So the first step to take is to simplify this part making a single method and call it from our actions.
```ruby
# articles_controller.rb
private

def set_article
  @article = Article.find(params[:id])
end
```
First we set a section to create `private` methods, then we create `set_article` to provide the proper instance variable.

At this point we could invoke `set_article` in each of the previous mentioned actions BUT we would repeat ourselves again!!! So it make sense to use and helper that Rails provide to us and that is perfect for this use case.

We can use the `before_action` helper to invoke a specific method before each action has been fired. This time though we could waste a lot of resources because **we don't need the `@article` in each action** we just need on some of them. 

To limit the reach of the `before_action`, like we did previously in our `routes`, we just need to provide an `only:` and specify for which action we want it to run. ^b52c92
```ruby
class ArticlesController < ApplicationController
  before_action :set_article, only: [ :show, :edit, :update, :destroy]
  # rest of controller
```
## Simplify the `params` required
In `update` and `create` we have the following: `params.require(:article).permit(:title, :description)`.

Even in this case we can simplify it by:
```ruby
# articles_controller.rb

# ... Other code

  def create
    @article = Article.new(article_params) # This uses the new method
	# other create
  end

  def update
    if @article.update(article_params)# This uses the new method
	# other update
  end
  
  private

  def article_params
    params.require(:article).permit(:title, :description)
  end
```
## Reduce duplicated views with partials
Partials are really useful, every time you duplicate code in your views you should think of making a partial. For example we have the `form` code that is duplicated in `new.html.erb` and `edit.html.erb` view.

The partials need to be in the same folder as the shared files to be automatically loaded, otherwise we have to provide a full path. Also a partial starts with an underscore but we do not use it when we call it from the view.

In order to create a shared form for both views we start by creating `views/articles/_form.html.erb` and we paste in it all the code relative to the form:
```ruby
# views/articles/_form.html.erb
<% if @article.errors.any? %>
  <h2>Couldn't save article because of those errors</h2>

  <ul>
    <% @article.errors.full_messages.each do |msg| %>
      <li><%= msg %></li>
    <% end %>
  </ul>
<% end %>

<% defaults = {
	wrapper_html: { class: 'flex flex-col mb-3' },
}%>

<%= simple_form_for @article, defaults: defaults, html: {class: "max-w-md"} do |f| %>
	<%= f.input :title %>
	<%= f.input :description %>
  <div>
    <%= f.button :submit, class: "bg-blue-700 text-white px-4 py-2 rounded cursor-pointer" %>
    or
    <%= link_to 'Cancel and get back to archive', articles_path %>
<% end %>
```
Now that we moved this piece of code we need to replace it in the views that are using this with:
```ruby
# paste in articles/new.html.erb and edit.html.erb in place of old form
<%= render 'form' %>
```