The model in Rails helps us to handle the data stored in the database table that has the same name as the model, only that it has been pluralized.

We can create a model with the command `bin/rails g model article` but since we have manually created the *articles* table in the previous lesson we will do it manually.

Let's move inside the `app/models/` folder and create the `article.rb` file. Inside the file write:
```ruby
class Article < ApplicationRecord
  
end
```
And this is all we need to do to let our app communicate with the `articles` table in our database.

This model also give us *getter* and *setter* to work with individual articles with the *title* and *description* column.

# Create an article

Since we have the file in place we can start working with our model right from the Rails console, just open your terminal and write:
`bin/rails c`

To test that everything is working fine all you have to do is write `Article.all`, this will query the database to find all the record inside the `articles` table and will show the result.

If you want to create a new record we need to use the `Article.create` method, remember you didn't have to write those since you inherit them from `ApplicationRecord`.

At this point, since we didn't set up any validation, you could also create an empty article but for the sake of this learning session let's see how to create a full article from the console:
```ruby
Article.create(title: 'first article', description: 'description of first article')

# Run this command created the following entry
TRANSACTION (1.1ms)  COMMIT
=> #<Article:0x00007f2ef42bb5b8
 id: "e75b7069-a2cd-4f32-a30f-2e0e0a0f048f",
 title: "first article",
 description: "description of first article",
 created_at: Fri, 02 Jul 2021 16:38:50.258586000 UTC +00:00,
 updated_at: Fri, 02 Jul 2021 16:38:50.258586000 UTC +00:00>
```
Remember that the `id` looks strange, not `1`, because our Docker is using `uuid` under the hood to generate those, also notice that we didn't specified the `created_at` and the `updated_at` but Rails is so smart to create them for each entry.

## Alternative (preferred) way to create an article
Generally speaking is better to use a variable to create our entry. So we create a new object like so:
```ruby
article = Article.new
=> #<Article:0x00005595c2292b30 id: nil, title: nil, description: nil, created_at: nil, updated_at: nil>
```
As you can see as soon as I declare the variable that holds a new `Article` obj the terminal shows me that it has created an article but is empty.

To fill all the information I can use the *setters* that Rails **has created for me**:
```ruby
article.title = "Second article"
article.description = "Description of second article"
```
If now I check my `article` variable in the console I get:
```ruby
> article
=> #<Article:0x00005595c2292b30
 id: nil,
 title: "Second article",
 description: "Description of second article",
 created_at: nil,
 updated_at: nil>
```
As you can see `id` is still `nil` and this means that my `article` hasn't been saved into the database. To save it I just have to write `article.save`.