A client makes a request to see a specific article in the form of an URL. The server receives the URL and tries to match it with the configuration that it finds in the `routes.rb` file.

Based on the `routes.rb` it passes the request to the specific *controller* that it is in charge of looking at the connected *model* to retrieve the information in the database and passing them to the *view* in charge of display it.

We generally call this the `show` action because is the named used generally for this kind of process.

Based on our example we have first to define a route to make all the magic work out.

# Create the route to show the article
When we have a model and a table in Rails we already have at our disposal a set of pre-defined routes with the resource routing that will map all the common CRUD routes to specific controller actions.

Generally speaking when you use `resources` in your `routes.rb`, for example `resources :articles` files the following table shows the kind of matches that generates: ^ae47a5

| HTTP Verb | Path                 | Controller#Action  | Used for                                    |
| --------- | -------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------- |
| GET       | `/articles`          | `articles#index`   | display a list of articles                  |
| GET       | `/articles/new`      | `articles#new`     | return an HTML form to create a new article |
| POST      | `/articles`          | `articles#create`  | create a new article                        |
| GET       | `/articles/:id`      | `articles#show`    | display a specific article                  |
| GET       | `/articles/:id/edit` | `articles#edit`    | return an HTML for for editing an article   |
| PATCH/PUT | `/articles/:id`      | `articles#update`  | update an article                           |
| DELETE    | `/articles/:id`      | `articles#destroy` | delete a specific article                                            |

> Based on our setup if you want to see all the routes defined by a project in your terminal you can always type `bin/rails routes`, if you like a table-like view you can add an `--expanded` option

If in any case you don't need to have all the routes that Rails provides for you, you can always limit those by applying the `:only` option:
```ruby
# routes.tb
Rails.application.routes.draw do
  resources :articles, only: [:show]
end
```
In the example above we tell Rails that for the moment we want to expose only the `/articles/:id` path for a GET request.

# Create the `Articles` Controller
A controller is where decision are made and in this case our Rails app needs to decide what to show when a user asks for the `/articles/:id` URL.

As you know from `routes.rb` we are looking for a `show` action that is in charge of responding to this request, let's create it!
```ruby
class ArticlesController < ApplicationController
  def show
    @article = Article.find(params[:id])
  end
end
```
So here I defined the `ArciclesController` class and the `show` method (the action) and I save into an instance variable `@article` the result that I get from the `Article.find` method that I run from our model.

`params` an hash that will hold all the parameters passed by the client and I am accessing the `id` in it.
# Create the view to show a single article
Following Rails conventions a view is stored inside the `app/views/` folder inside a folder that takes the same name of our controller, that in our case is `articles/`.

The file that will be used to generate the view for the specific action shares the same name, so inside our newly folder we need to create `show.html.erb` because `show` is the action that we're creating the view for and the extension defines the templating language.

Now that we have our view we can simply access to the information in our database like we've done previously in our terminal:
```erb
<h1 class='text-2xl'>Showind details of article</h1>
<p>This is the title: <%= @article.title %></p>
<p>And this is the description: <%= @article.description %></p>
```
