Rails tries to protect our application by default, every time you want to store in the database something that comes from the web it is there to make sure that the data it's getting are the ones that you want.

For example, if you try to just save the data that you get from the form with a `Article.new(params[:article])` you'll receive an error because Rails does not know what kind of data are considered accepted.

So to solve this we need first to let it know what we want adding [**StrongParameters**](https://api.rubyonrails.org/v6.1.3.2/classes/ActionController/StrongParameters.html) to our controller:
```ruby
def create
  @article = Article.new(params.require(:article).permit(:title, :description))
end
```
After we checked that everything works great, maybe with an `render plain: @article.inspect`, it is time to `save` the article in the database. All we need to do in this case is add `@article.save` to the `create` action:
```ruby
def create
  @article = Article.new(params.require(:article).permit(:title, :description))
  @article.save
end
```
But this does not represent the best UX because after a user creates the article nothing happen in the FrontEnd. Behind the scenes the article will be added to the database but the user is not able to know that because we don't tell Rails what to do after `save` the article.

The common solution is to redirect the user to the view that's in charge of `show`ing the new content, to do so we need to add a `redirect_to` the correct path.

> If you don't remember the prefix you have to use for the `_path`, just call `bin/rails routes` and you'll find out that for the `show` action the prefix is `article`

```ruby
def create
  @article = Article.new(params.require(:article).permit(:title, :description))
  @article.save
  redirect_to article_path(@article)
end
```
Even if we pass the entire instance variable `@article` here, Rails is smart enough to extract the `id` from it and build the correct route for the article.

Since this `redirect_to` is really common in the Rails ecosystem, in this case we can just write `redirect_to @article` and we will get redirected to the correct page.