With the [[90. Create action|previous lesson]] we `save` the article and we redirect the user to the single article page, but if we do not respect the validations that are running the user does not get back any error and will still be redirected, but this time to the `index` view.

To improve the user experience we can leverage a Rails feature called *flash messages* that it has been created to show short messages to the user to let them know what happen behind the scenes.

The first thing to do is to check that we were able to `save` the new article in the database. In case this is `true` we redirect the user, otherwise we let them know what went wrong:
```ruby
# Inside create action
if @article.save
  redirect_to @article
else
  # Let know the user something went wrong
end
```
The first thing that we want in case of error is to redirect the user to a view where it could be possible for him to solve the mistake, since the user is firing the `create` action from the `new` view we just need to tell Rails that we want to keep rendering it with 
`render 'new'`
```ruby
# Inside create action
if @article.save
  redirect_to @article
else
  render 'new'
end
```
# Show errors
Now that we tell what to do in case of errors it's time to show the kind of errors we have.

Inside the `new.html.erb` view we need to show the list of errors:
```ruby
<% if @article.errors.any? %>
  <h2>Couldn't save article because of those errors</h2>

  <ul>
    <% @article.errors.full_messages.each do |msg| %>
      <li><%= msg %></li>
    <% end %>
  </ul>
<% end %>
```
As shown in the [[88. Forms - build a new article creation form|create an article]] lesson we already pass the `@article` to the `new` action. Since we know that an article that can not be `save`d will have the `errors` we just check for it and if present we loop through `each` of them to display the error in a list.

> Also note that since we're using `simple_form` some of the errors will be presented right there too. If you try to create an empty article the message *can't be blank* will be shown inside an `span.error`

# Show flash notice
Inside [our template](https://github.com/AndreaBarghigiani/rails-tailwindcss) we already have most part of the flash messages handled and in them you'll find applied a bunch of styles. Checking `views/layouts/application.html.erb` you'll find that we render the `views/shared/_flash.html.erb` in case our application need to show some:
```ruby
# application.html.erb
<%= render 'shared/flash' if notice.present? || alert.present? %>
```
> `notice` and `alert` are simply accessors for the `flash[:notice]` and `flash[:alert]`

Since we have all the logic to show flash messages already in place all that we have to do now is simply to fire them from our controller.

Right now the only message that we want to show is a success message after the article creation, so we get back to the `articles_controller.rb` and add the following in case `@article.save` is successful:
```ruby
if @article.save
  flash[:notice] = 'Article was created successfully.'
  redirect_to @article
else
  # Let know the user something went wrong
end
```
In the example above we add a flash message of type `notice` inside the 'pipeline'. See the pipeline as a list of messages that our Rails application need to show, once shown the message get's removed from the list.
