This book covers two pattern to better understand the FE side of Rails:
* server communicates with the client sending HTML (*Hotwire*)
* server sends JSON and the client is responsible for the logic that converts it into HTML (*React*)

Going forward we will discover more foundational tools like TypeScript and Webpacker. The first is useful for write typed JavaScript code and discover common errors at compile time while the second one is a Rails tool that provide sensible defaults and useful conventions for the webpack build.

# Managing State and Front-End Development
State is the data that controls the interactions between the user and the application.
## The Structure of Web Applications
We want to exclude the creation of duplicate data and code. Since the web is *"stateless"* for many years we used `cookies` to identify the visitor and use that information to get the relative state that was stored in the server. So the browser was asking for a new page or a part of it and once received it will display them.
## Designing Around Basic Web Actions
Ruby on Rails is a framework for managing the state of a web application on the server via a small set of actions called CRUD (*Create*, *Read*, *Update* and *Delete*) that are represented by the seven operation provided for a [[What is a resource?|resource]]: *create*, *new*, *show*, *index*, *edit*, *update*, *delete*.

If you keep this kind of standard **Rails can do a lot for you** because with those the web browser is able to be really helpful in the form of input elements, manage state of forms and maintain a list of actions.

As you can see server-side model has many advantages but 10 years ago users started to expect the same interactions as desktop so we started to move everything to the client-side.
## Designing Around Client Logic
Moving to a client-side logic means that our *Single Page Application* needs to maintain (a lot) of statethat pertains only to the user interface and since it didn't make sense to handle those to the server JavaScript applications became more complex, for example they now need to handle routing too.

Client-side and server-side approaches have different concern:
* *client-side* - is more focused in managing the state of the objects and data beign interacted with
* *server-side* - the state is stored in the database and generally it doesn't worry about the mutability of individual instances, because they don't last beyond a single request

Trying to take the best of both worlds one approach, a server-side one, is to send just the HTML portion that changes in the page. 

A user want to see some content hidden behind a button click?

The user will click the button, browser sends the request for the HTML page that holds that content, server sends back **only the HTML partial** that contains the content, JavaScript in the browser swaps the DOM node to show the content. This approach can be accomplished nowadays with Hotwire, to be precise we're talking about Turbo here.

On the other hand we have the client-side approach where the client is responsible of everything. The server will only ship the original JavaScript and will comunicate with the client sending back and forth some data, generally JSON. Beside keeping the state for the user interface, the JavaScript client is also **responsible for making sure the server is informed of any change that needs to be persisted**.
## Patterns of Web Applications
There are three mayor patterns when building a web application:
* **a click trigger an entire page refresh** - user require a new page and in a standard server-side application this means that an entire HTML page is sent by the server. Probably we could handle the flickering (reload) of the page with Turbo Drive.
* **a click trigger a request to the server** - the server responds to the request sending the HTML of the part that's changed and the client side integrates that part. We can use Turbo Frame and Turbo Streams to handle one (or many) HTML partials.
* **a click trigger a request to the server that sends a JSON** - we're in the *SPA* world here. With the data JavaScript is responsible to change the DOM *and* to handle the routing as well.

For the most part this book is focused on the second approach.
# Configuring Webpacker
Webpacker is installed by default from Rails 6.1, but even though you need to make some configuration changes to install Hotwire and make sure that CSS and TypeScript (if used) are properly integrated.

This book will use the version 6.0 of the gem even if it's still in beta and talking about gem make sure to have this into your `Gemfile`: `gem "webpacker"`

The book goes ahead and explain step by step the configurations that are already implemented in the source code. Since it doesn't go into much details of the syntax and are all standard definitions that you can find in any other documentations we'll skip it.
## Package Managers and Modules
Introductory section of Ruby and JavaScript package managers. You should know these by now, if you don't check their docs since book is really light on those.
## Configuration Files
The book talks a bit about the files involved, `config/webpacker.yml` and `config/webpack/base.js`, and how they're used but it'll get deeper in following chapters.
## Code Files
Webpack will compile every file we put into `app/packs/entrypoints` and all the files referenced by them into a *pack*. The default place for a pack is in `public/packs` and you can access it in your view with the helper method `javascript_pack_tag`.

Rails generates a default pack and places it in `app/packs/entrypoints/application.js`. Into this file, that at the time of writing has minor differences between versions, loads [Rails UJS](https://github.com/rails/rails/tree/main/actionview/app/assets/javascripts) that handles basic AJAX requests and standard confirmation dialogs.

In order to use Tailwind CSS the file `application.scss` has been created that imports the standard Tailwind files.
# Using Webpacker
To be sure Webpacker it'll work we need to check that in `app/views/layouts/application.html.erb` you'll find the `stylesheet_pack_tag` and `javascript_pack_tag` that in the code are defined as follow:
```erb
<%= stylesheet_pack_tag(
			"application",
			media: "all",
			"data-turbolinks-track": "reload"
		) %>
<%= javascript_pack_tag("application", "data-turbolinks-track": "reload") %>
```
Running the server (`rails s` if you need a refresher) will bring Webpacker to life and will get it to save the compiled files in `public/packs`. With the bundled files comes also a bunch of `.map` files and the `manifest.json` that webpack uses to keep track of different packs.

Reloading the page will not trigger a new compile because all the files webpack is watching have no changes, but if you do some changes in the files the compilation will run again next load.

With `webpack-dev-server` we don't have to wait a reload to run the compilation but this is something that we'll se in Chapter 8.