Learn how to add interactivity to your pages writing almost zero JavaScript.
# The Hotwire Way
Hotwire is a set of tools that helps you send *HTML over the wire*, you don't have to deal with JSON or AJAX at all, with those you write as less JavaScript as possible and generally changes in the UI are driven toggling classes.

The base idea is:
* The server communicates with the client by sending rendered HTML, not raw data. This HTML response may contain some metadata about where to put it when it arrives.
* Any business logic the application might need should be on the server, not on the client.
* Specific client logic should be limited only to interface items that the server won’t care about.
* Where possible, client logic should be handled through the addition and removal of CSS classes. Doing so allows for a lot of client logic to be written in a generic manner.

Basically the server is the source of truth and this (should) help preventing duplicate the logic between the client and the server.

This kind of approach works really well if you leverage the partial-view files, especially if you use the [ActiveRecord naming convention](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#naming-partials). ^965444
# Installing Turbo
Unless you came from an old Rails app that you have to maintain you can skip this part of the book, the code sample already contains what you need and all the changes happen in the background.
# What is Turbo Drive?
Turbo Drive, previously known as Turbolinks, captures every clicked link or form submission, receives the response in the background, extract the `body` of the request and replaces the entire `body` of the page with the new response.

The downside of this approach is that the `load` event, that many JavaScript libraries depend on, is not fired. ^dc8d65

The solution is use Turbo Frame and Turbo Streams.
# Adding Interactivity with Turbo Frames
Turbo Frames behaves like Turbo Drive but the main difference is that the latter **will send the entire body** while with a frame we send just a little piece of HTML.

A Turbo Frame is a custom HTML tag, `<turbo-frame>`, that you can also generate with the helper function `turbo_frame_tag`.

As per Drive, also Turbo Frame will capture the server response for any click or a form submission. In the response will search for a Turbo Frame that has the same ID and it'll replace **just that part of the page**.

So when you want to create a Turbo Frame you need to wrap **two elements**, the first is the one that'll fire the capture and the second one is the partial that we want to use as response. In the example used in the book we have a row of a concert (the one that fires the capture) and we want to show the edit form when the user clicks the *Edit* button.

In order to make this connection we wrap the [concert row](https://github.com/noelrappin/rails_conf_2021_hotwire/blob/main/app/views/concerts/_concert.html.erb) and the [entire form](https://github.com/noelrappin/rails_conf_2021_hotwire/blob/main/app/views/concerts/_form.html.erb), each of them are partials btw, with `turbo_frame_tag(dom_id(concert))`. 

We use `dom_id()` because it generates a standard `id` from the `concert` informations. 

When a Turbo Frame sees a matching `id` between the request and the response, it'll simply replace the existing Turbo Frame with the incoming content.

When working with a Turbo Frame a nice touch is to **edit the action that handles the response**, in the book the example points to the `update`. To do so we change the `redirect_to` method that we generally use after a succesful update with a standard `render(@concert)`.

> ***Note:*** as you can see in this case the `render` is not used to call an action (that by default will render a view with the same name) but we pass to it the instance variable that holds all the current object. In doing so we're leveraging the (already mentioned) [ActiveRecord naming convention](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#naming-partials) that allow us to load a partial instead of an entire view.

We could keep the `update` action untouched because Rails is smart enough to take only the `<turbo-frame>` that has the same ID and will stop the action from rendering the layout but for performance reason is better to send as little HTML as needed, this it'll be helpful even from the database point of view since we will ask only for the data we need to display.

> ***Troubleshooting:*** If the incoming response does not contain a matching Turbo Frame, the existing Turbo Frame is replaced with blank contents. When this happen you can check the browser console, the Rails log or the Network tab to investigate on what is happening.

# Navigating Outside a Turbo Frame
Our previous changes get us a weird problem: **links inside a Turbo Frame don't work and gives unexpected results**.

If we click on a concert, that supposely should send us to the single concert page, the concert disappears from the list (*hint:* have a look at the Troubleshooting section above ☝️) and clicking on the *Make Favorite* button updates only the concert row but not the Favorite section above.

Both of those are caused by the same problem: **the link are inside the Turbo Frame but we try to change parts of the page that are outside**.

We can handle this in two ways:
* add a `target` attribute to our `<turbo-frame>` (or `target:` if you use the helper fn) that will set the default target for the frame. **No good** because this will change the behavior of all links in the frame redrawing the target frame.
* use the `data-turbo-frame` attribute to the links that we want to change the behavior of. When this attribute is present **the link looks for and redraws the Turbo Frame specified in it**.

Both of those have a special value `_top` that will refer to the **entire page**.

Since we want to render a totally new view when a user clicks on the concert name use the `_top` value in this case makes sense. Our new link now looks like this:
```ruby
<%= link_to(
	concert.name, 
	concert,
	data: {"turbo-frame": "_top"}
) %>
```
With the *Make Favorite* button instead we would like to update the part of the page that lists the new favourite concerts, we could solve with `_top` but we want to optimize for performance too so, as before, sending less data means faster pages.

To solve this issue the first thing we need to do is to wrap the partial `view/favorites/_list.html.erb` with `turbo_frame_tag("favorite-concerts")`, this will give as an `id` that we want to point to.

Now it's time to change the behavior of our *Make/Remove Favorite* buttons adding on those the `data-turbo-frame` attribute that points to the `id` that we just created.
```ruby
<% if current_user.favorite(concert) %>
	<%= button_to(
		"Remove Favorite",
		favorite_path(id: current_user.favorite(concert)),
		method: "delete",
		form: {data: {"turbo-frame": "favorite-concerts"}},
		class: SimpleForm.button_class
	) %>
<% else %>
	<%= button_to(
		"Make Favorite",
		favorites_path(concert_id: concert.id),
		method: "post",
		form: {data: {"turbo-frame": "favorite-concerts"}},
		class: SimpleForm.button_class
	) %>
<% end %>
```
Both `data-turbo-frame` attributes needs to be on the `form` that `button_to` creates, that's why we use the `form:` argument in the method.

Next, as we did for the `ConcertsController`, we need to change the `redirect_to` with the `render` in order to pass just the Turbo Frame that we want to display.

We change both the `create` and `destroy` actions with `render(partial: "favorites/list")`. Notice that in this case we explicitely tells Rails that we are rendering a `partial:` because we do not have any variable that holds a reference and helps us leverage the ActiveRecord naming convention.

If you test the *Make Favorite* button you'll soon notice that while our favorite section gets updated this time is the concert row that remains stale. This is happening because with `data-turbo-frame` we tell to the current Turbo Frame to **totally ignore** what is happening because the focus is switched to the new frame.

This issue can be solved with Turbo Streams.
# Extending Our Page with Turbo Streams
Turbo Streams is the next step in using Turbo to make pages dynamic without writing any custom JS.

The amazing thing about a Turbo Stream is that, as pointed before, you can send an arbitrary amount of HTML content to the page and have that content replace or augment existing content in multiple places of the page. Basically you can update multiple parts of the page from a single request.

Tecnically this is done with WebSockets via ActionCable but this is something we'll talks in the future.

A Turbo Stream is just a new custom HTML tag, `<turbo-stream>`, and Rails gives us also an helper fn `turbo_stream`.

Generally a Turbo Stream element looks like:
```
<turbo-stream action="<ACTION>" target="<TARGET>">
	<template>
		HTML GOES HERE
	</template>
</turbo-stream>
```

As you can see a Turbo Stream has two attributes:
* `target` - is the DOM ID of the element of the page we want to change
* `action` - defines what we want to do with the incoming HTML, there are five of those
	* `append` - the body of the template is added **at the end** of the `target`, the existing content is maintained,
	* `prepend` - the body of the templete is added **at the beginning** of the `target`, the existing content is maintained,
	* `remove` - the `target` is removed, the Turbo Stream does not need to have any content,
	* `replace` - the body of the template will **completely replace** the existing `target`, generally the body is a new element with the same ID
	* `update` - the body of the templete will **replace the content** of the `target` but not the element itself.

When a Turbo Stream response is evaluated, each separated Turbo Stream element has its action performed on its target.

In the sample application we're building we need to update with a Turbo Stream request the updates of the Favorites display and the inline display of the concert.

Using Turbo Streams inside Rails is even more powerful because inside a controller the framework is able to recognize `turbo_stream` as a format like `html` or `json`, so we can use the `respond_to` with `format.turbo_stream` to specify response behavior specific to Turbo requests. This means that Rails will look for a file named `<action>.turbo_stream.erb` and will not return the layout in the response making it even more performant.

It turns out that all we need to do is to create the ERB files and point the controller to them:
```ruby
#favorites_controller.rb
class FavoritesController < ApplicationController
	def index
	end
	
  def create
    @favorite = Favorite.create(user: current_user, concert_id: params[:concert_id])
    respond_to do |format|
		format.turbo_stream
	end
  end

  def destroy
    @favorite = Favorite.find(params[:id])
    @favorite.destroy
    respond_to do |format|
		format.turbo_stream
	end
  end

  private def favorite_params
    params.require(:concert_id)
  end
end
```
As you can see `create` and `destroy` have a similar structure and as explained before we're checking the `format` with `respond_to` so we could just provide a different response based on it. In our example this is not needed but is always good to know.

We could have left out the `respond_to` block entirely because loading `create.turbo_stream.erb` or `destroy.turbo_stream.erb` is the default behavior but we used it just in case you want to deal with different formats.

Inside the `<action>.turbo_stream.erb` files we can use a new Rails helper to create Turbo Streams, here is hot it looks the `create.turbo_stream.erb` file:
```ruby
<%= turbo_stream.append("favorite-concerts-list", @favorite) %>
<%= turbo_stream.replace(dom_id(@favorite.concert), @favorite.concert) %>
<%= turbo_stream.update("no-favorites") do %>
	no favorites
<% end %>
```
As you can see we have an helper for each kind of action we want to execute with the Turbo Stream response and all have the same attributes:
* the first is the **DOM ID** for the Turbo Stream,
* the remaining arguments are passed to `render` so anything you can do in a controller `render` you can do here.

If you do not want to pass additional arguments the method can take a block, like in the case of `turbo_stream.update`, and the content of the block became the children of the Turbo Stream. In it you can use all the [Action View Helpers](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_view_helpers.html) you need.

Looking closely at the example code:
* the `append` action uses `@favorite` to use the default partial resulting in `views/favorites/_favorite.html.erb` followint the [[2. Hotwire and Turbo#^965444|ActiveRecord naming convention]],
* the `replace` action overrides the existing concert row to update the button and it's state as favorite,
* the `update` action is used to remove the *"No favorite concerts yet"* string, if present, since we have just added one. We could not use the `remove` action instead because in this case we get rid of the entire container making impossible to update the message if needed.

# Turbo Frames vs Turbo Streams
Here's a useful table to check the differences between those two approaches:

| Turbo Frames                                               | Turbo Streams                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Change one DOM element                                     | Change and arbitrary number of DOM elements                         |
| Updates the inner HTML of the element                      | Can `append`, `prepend`, `remove` `replace` or `update` the element |
| Must be a `turbo-frame` with same ID                       | Any type of HTML with matching DOM ID inside the target                              |
| Evaluated on any navigation inside a `turbo-frame` element | Evaluated on form responses or ActionCable broadcasts               |

# Lazy loading a Turbo Frame
*Lazy loading* means that we add the possibility to cache the static parts of a page and dynamically load the others.

The code used to present the *favorited count* is:
```ruby
<div class="flex justify-items-end text-gray-300 px-3 py-2 text-sm font-bold">
	<span>Favorite Count:</span>
	<%= turbo_frame_tag(
		'favorites-count-number',
		src: favorites_path(count_only: true)
	) do %>
		<span id="favorites-count" class="ml-2">
			?
		</span>
	<% end %>
</div>
```

The interesting things to notice here are:
* **`turbo_fame_tag` has an `src`** - that tells Turbo tu automatically update the contents after calling the path in `src`
* **we display just a question mark** - this will be used while loading the template from the `src`

We need to make a minor change in the `index` method of `favorites_controller.rb` because we're passing an `src` that populates the `params[:count_only]`:
```ruby
def index
	if params[:count_only]
		render(partial: "favorites/count")
	end
end
```

In this way, when Turbo will load the `favorites_path(count_only: true)` in the `src` will load only the partial `_count.html.erb`:
```ruby
<span>Favorite Count:</span>

<%= turbo_frame_tag("favorites-count-number") do %>
	<span id="favorites-count" class="ml-2">
		<%= current_user&.favorites&.count || 0 %>
	</span>
<% end %>
```

You know by now but it is good to repeat, the Turbo Frame in the navigation and the one in `_count.html.erb` **must have** a matching ID, in our case it is `favorites-count-number`.

A new thing that you should learn is that you have to remember that *(it's better)* if you don't insert an `src` inside the *"rendered"* partial because you could just jump into an infinite loop.

Now most of the convention are in place, you have a placeholder that gets populated when the pages loads. What happen if user creates/removes a new fav? **You have to reload the page to see the new value in the nav**.

And that's because we still have to connect the Frame when the user makes those actions, you can do that with Streams.

All we have to do now is to update our streams to `update` the content with just the nuber of favorites.

> ***Remember:*** you're using the Turbo Stream `update` action, that's the reason why you don't have the wrapper `div` in `_count.html.erb`. Because `update` just replace the content in it.

Let's add the following code in `create.turbo_stream.erb` and `destroy.turbo_stream.erb`:
```ruby
<%= turbo_stream.update(
	"favorites-count",
	plain: current_user.favorites.count
) %>
```

Now you'll see that the application will change numbers while you're adding or removing favorites, whitout any JavaScript.