# What is Stimulus?
Allow us to handle common JavaScript patterns as *"and event happens, and i'd like to update the DOM in response to it"*. Basically it simplifies the process of creating a rrelationship between an event and the code that gets invoked.

Stimulus is great at adding contained areas of interactivity and works well as an enhancement to Turbo.

## Base concepts
All the concept involved in Stimulus are inserted into our application with specific `data` attributes. Stimulus looks for those and uses them to set up event listeners behind the scenes, then these listeners dispatch events to the specified controller method.

#### Controllers
Basically where our JavaScript code goes and contain methods that are called in response to events.

#### Actions
Describe what Stimulus must do in response to an event on the page.

#### Targets
Just DOM elements that are of interest of a controller.

#### Data maps and values
Here we store the state of the DOM that is of interest to a controller.

#### Classes
This is a special mechanism for managing and updating CSS classes on DOM elements.
#  Installing Stimulus
You can follow the book for a proper step by step but basically the important part is `import controllers` that assumes that our controllers will live in `app/packs/controllers` and will autoload them if we use a `data-controller` with their name.

> **Differences:** this is different on how we set up things in our boilerplate where controllers lives in `assets/javascript/` folder and we mimic the view structure with our components because we register each controller separately.
# Adding our first Controller
As for the standard controller in Rails, even in Stimulus the first thing to do is to create a controller that will set up actions (methods) that will be invoked when a specific event occurs.

To invoke a controller then all we need to do is add `data-controller="controller-name"` into a specific HTML element and the value of this attribute is the name of the controller that will get translated in camelCase.

For example if I use the `data-controller="controller-name"` Rails, or better Stimulus, will look for the file `app/packs/controllers/controller_name_controller.js` with the class `ControllerNameController`.

One thing to notice is that **any elements designated as target need to be inside the controller's DOM element**.

Stimulus has some methods that are used as lifecycle callbacks, the most common are `initialize`, `connect` and `disconnect` but you can find more in the [reference](https://stimulus.hotwired.dev/reference/lifecycle-callbacks).

The creation of a controller is really similar to the creation of a React component. You import some dependencies (in case of Stimulus you just need to import the `Controller`), define a name for your class/function and export it. But here is where similarities ends.

```ruby
import { Controller } from "stimulus"

export default class CssController extends Controller {
  /* Stimulus magic here */
}

```

> **Note:** from v3 of Stimulus the npm package has been renamed `@hotwire/stimulus`

### Random additional info
First and formost **you can declare the same controller an arbitrary number of times** in a single document, you can even nest them!

At the same time **a single element can be attached to multiple controllers**.
# Creating an Action
An *action* is what connects a DOM event to the controller code that you want executed when the event is dispatched, these actions are defined with a `data` attribute in markup.

Declare the action in Stimulus feels like a mini-language (*action descriptor*) and lives inside the `data-action` attribute. A standard action descriptor looks like this: `click->css#toggle`:
* `click->` - defines the name of the event, the `->` is mandatory but not part of the name
* `css#` - name of the controller, `#` mandatory and acts as separator
* `toggle` - the method that we want to fire when the event gets dispatched

In case a controller is used multiple times, Stimulus will use the instance that is the closest anchestor to the element triggering the event.

The method that we call in response of an event need to live inside the controller that gets defined in the action descriptor, in the example above we use call the `toggle` method that must live inside the `CssController`.

We are not limited to the events that happen inside the controller though, we can use custom events and capture global events as well on the window or document by adding `@window` or `@document` like `ready@document`.

Also we can attach multiple responses to the same event and the controller methods will be called in the same order the action descriptors are displayed.
# Adding a Target
In JavaScript land if we need to edit or get a value of a DOM element we usually reach for one of the following: `querySelect`, `querySelectAll`, `getElementById` and so on...

While we can still use this kind of fn/methods inside our controllers, Stimulus makes it aware of the elements of interest with `targets`. A target is defined, as anything in Stimulus as you are discovering, with a specific `data` attribute the follows a specific format: `data-<controller-name>-target` and the value of this is the name of the target that we use inside the controller.

As in many cases when working with Stimulus something that you do in the markup needs to be replicated in the controller, inside it we can define a `static` variables called `targets` where we put the name of the specific target in it.

So if in the markup we defined a target like so `data-css-target="elementToAddClass"` inside the `CssController` we have to specify it with `static targets = ['elementToAddClass']` and in doing so Stimulus defines three properties on the controller that we can use:
* `<targetName>Target` (*`elementToAddClassTarget`*) - returns the first DOM element in the scope of the controller that declares it
* `<targetName>Targets` (*`elementToAddClassTargets`*) - returns an array of all the DOM elements in the scope of the controller that declares it
* `has<TargetName>Target` (*`hasElementToAddClassTarget`*) - returns a boolean value depending on the presence of the target, useful to avoid exceptions raised if `<targetName>Target` is not found.
# Using Values
Values can be considered as syntactic sugar that allows us to use data attributes to store data that is specifically associated with a controller.

Generally speaking we add the value attribute in the same element that declares the controller.

Defining a value inside the markup follows the same pattern that we've seen until now, `data-css-visible-value` where:
* `css` - is the name of the controller
* `visible` - is the name of the value
* `value` - is the suffix used to tell Stimulus that we are defining a value

As for the others, the value that this attribute holds is the value that we will use inside the controller and we have to define it in there too. This time though the `values` static variable contains an object and not a simple array, so if we declare `data-css-visible-value="true"` in our controller we must do:
```ruby
static values = { visible: Boolean }
```

The types that are accepted are *Array*, *Boolean*, *Number*, *Object* and *String*. *Boolean* and *Number* are converted with the `toString` method, while *Array* and *Object* using `JSON.stringigy`.

As happened for targets, declaring a value give us three properties and they change based on the kind of value we pass:
* `<valueName>Value` (`<valueName>Values` if *Array* or *Object*) - acts as a getter and a setter for the value
* `has<valueName>Value` (`has<valueName>Values` if *Array* or *Object*) - returns `true` or `false` depending if the value is in the DOM
# Automating Value Changes
A cool thing about using values is that we will have a callback method that is fired each time the value has changed, `<valueName>Changed`. 

This allows us to run any kind of fn/method when a value inside the controller has changed and makes our code really easy to use. So this makes values acts as the state of our application and even if you change the value holded in the `data` attribute, Stimulus will be able to listen for it and invoke the specific fn/methods we used.

Also if you rely on a value to set up your view, you'll be happy to know that any `changed` method is automatically called when the controller is initialized and will be able to use the initial value in the markup of the default one.
# Stimulus has Class
Stimulus has introduced the ability to define in the markup the classes that we want to use inside our JavaScript code, this even if it sounds strange makes our controllers more general and allow us to separate the markup from the logic even more.

By now it should be no surprise but to define a class in the markup you will have to use a new `data` attribute that will have this format: `data-<controller-name>-<descriptor>-class` and the value that holds is the CSS class the Stimulus will use.

And like the other parts of the markup that gets used by Stimulus, we have to define them in our controller as a `static` variable:
```javascript
static classes = ['hidden'] // For the data-css-hidden-class attribute
```

This definition gave us:
* `<classDescriptor>Class` (*`hiddenClass`*) - returns the value passed in the attribute
* `has<classDescriptor>Class` (*`hasHiddenClass`*) - returns a boolean if it is present
# Going generic
Going generic it is an aspect that I will not go through in this notes, it is better if you will see the book for this since it leverages all the code that you wrote to make two separate Stimulus controllers:
* `CssController` - this will add/remove a CSS class defined in the markup in response of a click event
* `TextController` - this will toggle the text, also defined in the markup, in response of a click event

As you can notice, the book teaches us how to generalize our controllers and create standard actions that can get reused over time inside our application. For example we use the same controllers in other two different parts of the application without writing any additional JavaScrpt.
# Stimulus quick reference