asaGenerally speaking it is really rare to have a mix of Rails and React competing to rendering the FE part of an application but based on needs this can happen.

The author of the book decided to do so since we can use a single application and don't mess with different ones.

When you work with React in this way this library **does not take over the full page** as it happen in standard SPA, instead it'll take over only a portion of a page.

The example is a table that lists the seats in a venue, for the moment we're working with fixed data but later on we'll see how to mix data from the server.

## Pointing at the important stuff
TBH I don't know if this is a preference of the author or it is a standard practice but since Webpack will watch in the `app/packs/` folder he decided to create the `components/` folder in it in order to store all the components that we will use.

The components are really simple functional component that use the `useState()` hook to handle come interactivity to the user. For the Rails developer the interesting part is understand how we connect React to our DOM.

Beside the custom folder that keep all our components we need to:
1. add the `venue_display.tsx` in `app/packs/entrypoints/`
2. change how we import JavaScript into our pages with `javascript_pack_tag` in `app/views/layouts/application.html.erb`

### Add `venue_display.tsx` in `entrypoints/`
Here we mostly add the code that we insert in the main JavaScript file of a React application, but with some differencies:
```js
import * as React from "react"
import * as ReactDOM from "react-dom"
import Venue from "components/venue"

document.addEventListener("turbo:load", () => {
  if (document.getElementById("react-element")) {
    ReactDOM.render(
      <Venue rows={10} seatsPerRow={10} />,
      document.getElementById("react-element")
    )
  }
})
```

We add an eventListener because with Turbo Drive we don't have a standard `load` event and to have React work in this environment we need to listend for `turbo:load`, [[2. Hotwire and Turbo#^dc8d65|the custom event that Turbo fires]].

Once our script gets loaded we check if it's present a `div#react-element`, if so we call `ReactDOM.render` and attach the `<Venue />` component to it.

### Change the `javascript_pack_tag`
Now that we connected our React to the page we need to tell to the Rails application to load the file `venue_display.tsx` and let React take over the `#react-element` to render the components we build.

The `javascript_pack_tag` looked like this:
```erb
<%= javascript_pack_tag("application", "data-turbolinks-track": "reload") %>
```

Becames:
```erb
<%= javascript_pack_tag(
	"application", 
	"venue_display",
	"data-turbolinks-track": "reload"
) %>
```

Basically we add the file in the same call, this is not ideal because it'll require us to load the React code in each page load but for the moment is good enough.