Now that we have our users it's time to connect them to our articles, since one user could have multiple articles we are going to create a *one-to-many* association.

The first thing we need to do is to create a new migration because in order to make the association work correctly we **need** to have a specific `user_id` column inside our `articles` table. Doing so we create a relationship with the two tables and we will be able to get loads of useful methods from Rails once the setup is done.

`bin/rails g migration add_user_id_to_articles`

This created the migration file, now let's add this column:
```ruby
class AddUserIdToArticles < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.1]
  def change
    add_column :articles, :user_id, :uuid
  end
end
```
> **Be aware** that in [[126. Create users#^065633|this project]] you're using UUID to create unique ids so you must use the same type for the column value otherwise you'll get into troubles 😉 

Once we run the migration just to double check that everything was fine withing the Rails console I could just check the structure of an article with `Article.first`, if you see that the article has `user_id` we can start to connect (**associate**) the two tables with Rails.
```ruby
# models/user.rb
has_many :articles

# models/article.rb
belongs_to :user
```
Just by adding those two simple line of code to our models we get a bunch of methods that we can use to simplify our code and make it more readable.

Do you want to know which user owns the first article?
`Article.first.user`

Do you want to know how many articles has the last user?
`User.last.articles`

Two two simple examples refers to the *first* and *last* because it has a simple syntax, but you can use any instance of our models.

For example here's how you can assign an user to an article:
```ruby
# We'ew still in the console
user = User.first
article = Article.first

# assign the article to the articles list of the user
user.articles << article
```
> An important thing to understand is that since we declare this association between articles and users now **we cannot create an article without a user**.

