## Anatomy of an animation
We need to use the `motion` elements to animate with Framer Motion. These are wrappers around the native HTML elements that allow us to animate them with the Framer Motion API. 

You usually have a starting and an ending point when working with animations. In Framer Motion, these states are represented by the `initial` and `animate` props. The `initial` prop defines the starting state of the animation, while the `animate` prop defines the end state.

So, for example, if you want to build an entrance animation where your element gets shown and grows over time, you have to define it as initially hidden (`initial={{opacity: 0, scale: 0}}`) and tell FM how to display it once the page is loaded (`animate={{opacity: 1, scale: 1}}`). 

```jsx
import { motion } from "framer-motion"; 

export default function Example() {
  return (
	<div className="wrapper">
      <motion.div
        initial={{ opacity: 0, scale: 0 }}
        animate={{ opacity: 1, scale: 1 }}
        className="element"
      />
	</div>
  )
}
```
The animation happens outside the React's render cycle, so a re-render does not get triggered.

## Transition
There's a special property inside `animate` that allows us to define the transition of our animation specifically.

By default, Framer Motion applies a spring animation for physical properties like `x` or `scale`, while a tween animation (easing-based) is applied for values like `opacity` or `color`.

`transition` gives you the power to change this approach and define your approach to animation.

## Exit animations
These are some of the most complex animations to build because it's hard to animate an element that **will be removed** (or added) from the DOM.

Here's where the Framer Motion component `AnimatePresence` shines, it allows you to animate elements when they're added/removed from the React tree.

All you need to do is wrap an element you want to animate, add the `exit` prop and define inside it how you want to animate when it get's removed.

```jsx
import { motion, AnimatePresence } from "framer-motion"
 
export const MyComponent = ({ isVisible }) => (
  <AnimatePresence>
    {isVisible ? (
      <motion.div
        initial={{ opacity: 0 }}
        animate={{ opacity: 1 }}
        exit={{ opacity: 0 }}
      />
    ) : null}
  </AnimatePresence>
)
```
It also has different modes. The `wait` is really useful when you need to swap between two components.
```jsx
const variants = {
  hidden: { opacity: 0, scale: 0.5 },
  visible: { opacity: 1, scale: 1 },
};
 
// ...
 
<button aria-label="Copy code snippet" onClick={copy}>
  <AnimatePresence mode="wait" initial={false}>
    {copied ? (
      <motion.span
        key="checkmark"
        variants={variants}
        initial="hidden"
        animate="visible"
        exit="hidden"
      >
        <CheckmarkIcon />
      </motion.span>
    ) : (
      <motion.span
        key="copy"
        variants={variants}
        initial="hidden"
        animate="visible"
        exit="hidden"
      >
        <CopyIco />
      </motion.span>
    )}
  </AnimatePresence>
</button>
```
Keep in mind that for these kinds of animations, you need to:
- include the `initial={false}` on `AnimatePresence`, so FM will not animate on the initial render
- make sure that each element has a different `key`, so it will be unmounted properly
## Variants
Variants are a cool way to create animations that you will reuse inside your components or to make a sort of inheritance inside them.

Look at [[Advanced Motion Variants]] for an in-depth note.