## Layout animations
One of the most powerful features of Framer Motion is the `layout` prop. That's because it allows us to animate properties that otherwise are impossible to animate.

For example, if you want to animate an element that changes its `flex-direction` from `row` to `column` you need to convert it into a `motion` component and apply the `layout` prop.

But `layout` animations aren't always straightforward. 

First and foremost, if you see that a `layout` animation distorts some of your child components, the first test you can do to fix this is to convert the element into a `motion` one and apply the `layout` prop to it.

After that, make sure your element isn't `display: inline` and [read the troubleshooting](https://www.framer.com/motion/layout-animations/#troubleshooting) section of the documentation to check other edge cases.

## Shared layout animations
We have already seen how `AnimatePresence` is a powerful component that allows us to work with the `exit` prop of Framer Motion. However, this is useful only when an element gets added or removed from the DOM.

How can we handle a transition between two related components?

Let's say I have a `<Card />` component, and I want it to display a dialog modal with additional information when the user clicks on it; how can we handle that?

Framer Motion helps us even with this by giving us a `layoutId` prop that we can use to connect the two components. If you set the exact value of `layoutId` to two separate components Framer Motion will do everything possible to animate the transition.

But remember, as stated before, if you see some weird animation in its child components, it is best to transform them into `motion` components and connect them with separate `layoutId` values that match each other. 

## Animating height
Framer Motion allows us to easily animate the `height` of an element from a fixed size to `auto`, but what can we do when also the starting point of an element is set to `auto`?

In this case we need to bring in some browser feature like the [Resize Observer API]([ResizeObserver API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ResizeObserver)) or a helpful npm package called [useMeasure](https://github.com/pmndrs/react-use-measure) that gives us all the `getBoundingClientRect()` properties of an element.

In the exercise, we use the `useMeasure` hook, which gives us a `ref` and a `bounds` object.

The tricky part is that we **cannot use the `ref` on the element we want to animate**. We need to place it in a child element that we know will change its size. 

Let's show some code to make it clear.

```jsx
import useMeasure from 'react-use-measure';
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import {motion} from 'framer-motion';

const MyComponent = () => {
  const [bounds, ref] = useMeasure();
  const [showExtraContent, setShoowExtraContent] = useState(false);

  return (
    <motion.div className="parent">
        <button onClick={() => setShoowExtraContent((prev) => !prev)}>
            Toggle extra content
        </button>
        <div className="child">
            <p>Standard content</p>
            {showExtraContent && (
                <div className="child">
                    <p>Extra content</p>
                </div>
            )}
        </div>
    </motion.div>
  );
};

export default MyComponent;
```
This is our starting point, now let's see how the code will change if we want to animate the `height` of our parent component when `showExtraContent` is set to `true`.
```jsx
import useMeasure from 'react-use-measure';
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import {motion} from 'framer-motion';

const MyComponent = () => {
  const [bounds, ref] = useMeasure();
  const [showExtraContent, setShoowExtraContent] = useState(false);

  return (
    <motion.div className="parent" animate={{height: bounds.height}}>
        <button onClick={() => setShoowExtraContent((prev) => !prev)}>
            Toggle extra content
        </button>
        <div className="child" ref={ref}>
            <p>Standard content</p>
            {showExtraContent && (
                <div className="child">
                    <p>Extra content</p>
                </div>
            )}
        </div>
    </motion.div>
  );
};

export default MyComponent;
```
All we had to do was to add the `animate` prop to our `.parent` and set the `ref` to the `.child`. Now, when our `.child` changes its `height`, our `.parent` will animate, giving us all the handles that we're used to having in a `motion` component.

## Gestures
With Framer Motion you can start dragging an element just by adding the `drag` prop, and it'll also animate smoothly.

Obviously, this will give no boundaries to the movements of the component. In order to give some you need to get the boundaries of the parent component by adding a `ref` to it and use the same `ref` inside the `dragConstraints` prop.

Dive deeper inside the [Framer Motion docs](https://www.framer.com/motion/gestures/).

## useTransform
The `useTransform` hook is a powerful feature of Framer Motion because it allows you to connect a `MotionValue` (a primitive in Framer Motion that updates its value outside React's render cycle, internally used by every `motion` component) from one range of values to another.
```jsx
const opacity = useTransform(
  x,
  // Map x from these values:
  [0, 100],
  // Into these values:
  [1, 0]
)
```
With this little snippet, we relate the `[0, 100]` values to the ones that are under it, meaning that as the `x` value goes from `0` to `100`, it'll be ported into the range of `1` and `0`.

For example, if `x` is `20` the `opacity` will be `0.8`.